Historic, archived document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or 

practices. 



1 




FARMERS' BULLETIN No. 1925 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



Bureau of Home Economics / • Agricultural Research AdminlstraHon 



ABCs of MENDING 

by 

CLARICE L. SCOTT, Associate Home Economics Specialist 

A TINY HOLE can make a garment practically useless. A well-done 
mend can make it "like new" again. Such is the magic of the art of 
Uiendipg ... ao art any homemaker can master easily. 

Besides being a part of wardrobe first aid, mending comes under the head 
of patriotic duty these days. It's part of wartime good citizenship to take 
care of the things we have , . . to waste nothing. With labor and looms 
turning out more goods for military use, production of civilian clothing has 
been curtailed. Some types of clothing now in your wardrobe cannot be 
replaced for the duration. 

Plan Your Mending 

Check all ready-mades before they are worn. It is easier to "prevent" 
by strengthening weak spots with a stitch or two than to "cure" with 
many more stitches later on. 

Look over clothing regularly with an eye to needed mending. If you 
catch breaks before they grow, you'll cut down a lot on mending time. 

Take a stitch in time. Once you've found a place that needs mending, 
mend it before the garment is worn again. 

Modern Mending Basket 

Whenever you do your mending, you'll find a mending basket a big help. 
This may be a basket . . . box . . . bag . . . large drawer . . . any 
place where you can keep mending supplies together. With materials all 
collected, it is easy to pick up bits of mending in your spare time . . . not 
have the chore of hunting for your equipment each time. 

Keep in the mending basket different sizes of fine needles . . . different 
sizes and colors of thread . . . darning cotton . . . scraps of patching 
material for everyday clothes . . . buttons . . . bits of net . . . tape 
. . . snaps . . . hooks and eyes ... a stocking darner if you use one ... 
perhaps little patches you press on to mend some materials . . . and any 
other mending helps you use often. 



2 



Check Ready-Mades to Save Mending 



Check your ready-made clothing before it goes into permanent service to 
sec if there are places that need strengthening. A few well-placed stitches 
can save you much patching and darning later on . . . help you get 
the best possible service from these clothes. 

Seams. Uneven stitching makes weak seams. It may be necessary to re- 
stitch some seams. A narrow seam allowance may not hold material that 
frays. If the material frays, but not badly, simple overcasting of the raw 
seam edges will make a seam secure. If the material frays quite readily, 
it's better to run a row of machine stitching near the cut edges — then 
overcast the edges. 

Armhole seams rip or pull if the stitching is loose or the seam allowance 
small. A good way to make sure they hold is to stitch them twice . . . 
placing one row of stitching one-fourth inch inside the other. If the 
material frays or pulls readily, also overcast the cut edges. 

Hems. As a rule, hems are sewed loosely in ready-madcs. Rehem with 
secure stitches and strong thread. 

Plackets. Plackets often need to be strengthened because there is con- 
siderable strain at the ends. Put in extra stitches at the end of the placket, 
or sew tape stays across the ends on the underside. 

Pocket corners. Strengthen pockets at the corners to keep them from 
tearing. For high waist pockets, barred stitching usually is enough. 
Dress and apron pockets must be more sturdy. Lay a piece of tape on the 
underside in line with the pocket top. Stitch it in with the corners. 

Stretchy edges. Necklines, collars, plackets, and pockets not cut on the 
straight of the goods sometimes stretch, then tear. Stay these places by 
sewing tape on the underside of the outer edges. Or rip open the facing, 
sew tape next to the edge, and restitch facing. 

Fastenings. Rework raveled buttonholes with a buttonhole or blanket 
stitch. If the buttonhole is completely raveled, machine-stitch close to the 
cut edge of the hole. Then work the buttonhole by hand . . . with 
a buttonhole or a blanket stitch. 

Resew loose buttons with strong thread that matches the garment. 
Leave a shank of thread so the buttonhole can slip under the button without 
straining the cloth. 

Resew hanging snaps or hooks and eyes neatly and securely. Use strong 
but not heavy thread that matches. 

Dangling threads. Fasten off threads everywhere that stitching ends. 
Pull these threads to the inside of the garment and tie securely. Or run 
them through a needle and fasten with a few stitches . • . or pull 
inside a hem or fold. 



489322*— 42 



3 



Patcliins and Darning Pointers 



Suit Mend to Break 

Here are points to think about when you are deciding which darn or patch 
you want to use on a particular place to be mended. 

li^Shape of the place to be mended. A bad snag naturally calls for a 
different type of mend than a slanting cut or a straight tear. 

^Material. Does it have a nap or is it smooth? Is it light or heavy in 
weight? Is it washable or must it be dry-cleaned? Does it fray? 

^Size of the hole. Some mends arc more successfully done on a small 
scale . . . others on large. 

Where is the hole? Is it in a spot that will be strained constantly 
when you wear the garment? Or is it in an out-of-the-way place? This 
makes a difference in how sturdy the mend must be. 

Patches 

Cut the patch on the straight of the goods. Sew it on so the crosswise 
and lengthwise yarns in the patch will match crosswise and lengthwise 
yarns in the material. 

If the material has a design, match each detail perfectly. That helps hide 
the mend. 

If the garment is old and faded, try to get a matching patch from a hem 
or some spot where you can spare old material. 


